So far we've built out the basic structure of our game.
We've got some enemies there and we need people to check to see if collisions are happening between
the different elements on the page.
I'm going to remove out all of the console messages so save that so we don't have an overwhelming number
of console messages and we just want to simply detect if there's a collision taking place between the
two elements.
So the enemies and the current car creating a function we're gonna create a function to check to see
if it's collided.
Call it is collide and we're checking to see element a versus element B first selecting our bounding
client rectangle of eight using the same function that we used earlier where we get the bounding client
rectangle that will give us all of the parameters that we need in order to detect that collision.
And next we can do rectangle and set that to the same thing where we're getting the bounding client
rectangle method.
So now we've got the overall top position bottom position right left position and we need to make a
determination if there's any overlap.
So we're returning a value and we're checking to see if the overlap is positive and if it is then we're
gonna be returning back a value of false but we want to show a value of true.
So checking to see and that's why we've got that negative there to negate the pause that true and turn
it into a false value.
If there's no collision and if there is a collision then we're going to return back true.
We need to check all of the corners.
So taking a rectangle and the bottom corner we're gonna check to see if the value of a rectangle bottom
is less than the value of b rectangle top.
So it's going to check the top corner of rectangle B bottom corner of rectangle a and so we know that
if those are matching we also want to check to see if there's an overlap rectangle top.
And if it's greater than B rectangle bottom so that's going to take the other corners the opposite corners
and check those the other condition that we're checking.
So we need to check the left and right position so check in the top and bottom values to see if there's
any overlap.
And next we're checking that a rectangle right position.
And this is the opposite of the top and bottom.
We're gonna do the horizontal positioning and checking to see if it's less than B rectangle left.
So see if there's any overlap there and then there's one last value that we need to check to see if
there's any overlap.
So we need to check to see if rectangle A's left side is overlapping rectangle B's right side.
So try that out and we need to send over those values and we can do that as we're moving the enemy.
So we're looping through all of those enemies and we can also get the car value that's available here.
So passing in the car objects would have to select it again.
We're gonna take that car value and make use of it within our loop here.
So passing over those values we're going gonna check to see if car and if item and if they are colliding
then we're going to output in the console.
So we see that once they're overlapping we get a hit displayed in our console.
And if there's no overlap then we don't get anything.
So now we know that we are able to detect the collision and this is the collision on each and every
one of the enemies.
That actually doesn't matter which one we're hitting.
We're always getting that collision because we do have that bounding box for the car.
And we also have the bounding box for the eye.
So once we have a collision then that's where we need to stop the game and show the player that the
game has been stopped and that they've hit and made a collision.
So coming up next show you how to do that.
So go ahead and add in the collision detection into your application using the get bounding client rectangle
and checking the horizontal as well as checking the horizontal as well as the vertical top and bottom
positions of both of those elements on the page.